Team Standards of operation

1. Defect reduction excellence

    1. Programming excellence

       1. The average entropy in code - a practical indicator is tdd levels

           Level 0 : Unit tests are not given any importance (just written to keep the manager or the code police happy)

           Level 1 : Good unit tests are written

           Level 2 : Unit tests are used to create better designs

           Level 3 : Affirmative action is taken to reduce the reliance upon mocks (Indicative of better abstractions and low entropy) 

    2. Analysis excellence

       1. Identification of closures

    3. Integration testing excellence

       1. Can the entire system be deployed to a single developer machine and tested?

       2. What is the granularity of tasks taken up for tests? Do we have to batch them together or can the tasks be tested individually?

2. Feature improvement excellence - How does the team continuously seek to add value to the ecosystem? How many stable intermediate forms does the team have?

   Level 1 - Having monitors that track the patterns of usage

   Level 2 - Using the monitors to identify actionable items

   Level 3 - Making the leap and scoping in improvement work as a part of spring or quarter planning

   Level 4 - Measuring impact and iterating

3. Learning excellence

    1. Avg percentage of available tasks that developers can pick up.

4. Operational excellence

   Level 0: Having operational ticket targets

   Level 1: Creating structures to help figure out the most problematic areas

   Level 2: Actively analyzing, scoping and bringing improvement tasks into spring planning

   Level 3: Having buckets for (Feature Improvement, Defect reduction , Operational excellence, Run of the mill tasks - that keep the system running) and assigning capacity to them so that each of them are given priority


The most important pre-requisite to achieve all these is

   1. Continuously evaluating the performance of the team with this structure to seek continuous feedback

   2. Taking affirmative action to address action items
